Jill Jones talking to Shirley Davis, continuation. So Shirley, when the Minera Limestone quarry closed, can you tell me a little bit about what happened next there?
Yes, it was closed for quite some time and there were a number of us in the village who were quite concerned about what was going to happen in the line works, what the future of it was going to be.
Because it was an area where many of us did walk, but it was becoming very overgrown, we were finding it more and more difficult to get in and out of there.
And we heard via my husband actually, who was on the council at the time, that it was up for sale.
And as a result of this, a few of us got together. We got together in the City Arms, which was a pub that was open at the time.
And at that first meeting I was appointed as the Chair of the City Arms.
And we were part of a new group which was looking into what we could do about the quarry, about the line works.
We then went for a brainstorming session, which was up in the cycle centre up in Llandellia.
And we formed a committee and from that committee we then decided that we were going to do our level best
to get it for the pupils who were going to be in the quarry.
And we had a meeting with the community of Monera, for them to have it as a facility for the whole area.
Yes, as an outdoor general access.
Yes.
And many of the meetings went on in my house.
It was open house and we continued to meet.
We struggled, we really really struggled very hard.
Trying to get the work done.
Trying to get people to listen to us.
And to agree to us doing, having something done with it.
Yes.
And it was only eventually when we managed to get the North Wales Wildlife Trust on board with us
that we were able to secure it for the people of the community and make it a facility.
Rather than what was becoming an eyesore and a problem.
Yes.
So we...
I then stepped down from being the chairperson.
Yes.
And it was taken over.
And there had been a couple of chairmen after that.
Yes.
But I'm quite pleased to say that as a result of the efforts that the group made, it wasn't just me but it was the group.
Yes, the committee was really good and hard working.
Absolutely.
Yes.
And met on a regular basis and we managed eventually to...
to get the Wildlife Trust on board and with their help and what have you.
Yes.
It's now a good...
It is.
It's a good local...
Facility.
Yes.
And hopefully it's going to go on and be an even better facility in the future.
I think it's got such possibilities.
It's such a brilliant area and it's such a large area.
Yes.
That we could do all sorts of things there.
I've still got lots of ideas of things that could be done but...
But we've met a lot of people.
We've had a lot of important people that have come up and looked at the area.
Yes.
And have all said, you know, what a wonderful area it is and what a wonderful thing that we should do...
that we were doing to actually try and save it for the community.
Because there's the industrial kilns there.
Archaeology and...
There's the general wildlife anyway and there's the nearness for the community.
Yes.
And even if they don't walk the mile and a half to get there, so we need car parking space there possibly.
But they're still...
They don't know how many miles they walk once they're in.
Absolutely.
Absolutely, yes.
Yes.
And it's the...
You know, it's a place of entertainment.
It's a place of learning.
Yes.
It's a place of education.
It's a place of leisure.
Yes.
People just go there leisurely.
They walk their dogs.
They do all sorts of things within it.
And I think that we've...
We've managed to do something really worthwhile in ensuring that it's going to be kept in, hopefully, for many, many years to come.
Yes.
It will be used by the community.
Yes, with local open access for everyone.
Yes.
I do meet people now when I'm up there.
I do find that some of them now...
We do have Welsh-speaking people going up there quite often.
Going back years ago...
Most of the people that were up there were Welsh speakers.
Yes.
Most of the quarry workers would have been speaking Welsh, singing Welsh on their way back.
They would be...
Yeah, but now, for a long time, it's been a lot of English-speaking people, and now it seems to be going full circle.
It's turning back.
And we seem to be having a lot of Welsh people up there and, you know, taking more notice.
We do have lots of foreign people coming as well.
Yes, we do.
Yes.
And, yeah, so I don't know if I can extend that one more way.
So thank you very much, Shirley.
You're very welcome.
Very enjoyable to talk to you today and for you to come and meet us both.
Oh, I've enjoyed it.
Thank you.